feat(serverless): update concepts (#4150)
scaleway/docs-content: faq/serverless-jobs.mdx

productIcon: ServerlessJobsProductIcon
---

> ## What is serverless computing and how does it differ from traditional cloud hosting?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is serverless computing, and how does it differ from traditional cloud hosting?
```

Serverless computing is a cloud execution model where the cloud provider dynamically manages the allocation of compute resources. Unlike traditional hosting models, you don’t need to provision, scale, or maintain servers. Instead, you focus solely on writing and deploying your code, and the infrastructure scales automatically to meet demand.

> ## Why consider using Serverless Containers, Functions or Jobs for my projects?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why consider using Serverless Containers, Functions, or Jobs for my projects?
```

> These services allow you to build highly scalable, event-driven, and pay-as-you-go solutions. Serverless Containers and Functions help you create applications and microservices without worrying about server management, while Serverless Jobs let you run large-scale, parallel batch processing tasks efficiently. This can lead to faster development cycles, reduced operational overhead, and cost savings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These services allow you to build highly scalable, event-driven, and pay-as-you-go solutions. Serverless Containers and Functions help you create applications and microservices without worrying about server management, while Serverless Jobs lets you run large-scale, parallel batch-processing tasks efficiently. This can lead to faster development cycles, reduced operational overhead, and cost savings.
```

## What is Serverless Jobs, and when should I use it?

Serverless Jobs allows you to run large-scale batch processing and computational workloads in a fully managed environment. If you have tasks like data processing, machine learning training jobs, simulations, or large-scale analytics that can be parallelized, Serverless Jobs helps you orchestrate and manage those workloads seamlessly.

## How do I integrate my serverless solutions with other Scaleway services?

Integration is straightforward. Serverless Functions and Containers can be triggered by events from Queues, SQS and SNS and can easily communicate with services like Managed databases or Serverless databases. Serverless Jobs can pull data from Object Storage or output processed results into a database. With managed connectors, APIs, and built-in integrations, linking to the broader Scaleway ecosystem is seamless.

> ## Can I update Serverless Jobs ressources (vCPU and RAM) at any time?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Can I update Serverless Jobs resources (vCPU and RAM) at any time?
```

> Yes, ressources of your Job Definition can be updated at any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, resources of your Job Definition can be updated at any time.
```

> Ongoing Job Runs will remain using the ressources definied at the time it started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ongoing Job Runs will remain using the resources definied at the time it started.
```

## Can I securely use sensitive information with Serverless Jobs?

Yes, you can use sensitive data such as API secret keys, passwords, TLS/SSL certificates, or tokens. Serverless Jobs seamlessly integrates with [Secret Manager](/identity-and-access-management/secret-manager/), which allows you to securely reference sensitive information within your jobs. Refer to the [dedicated documentation](/serverless/jobs/how-to/reference-secret-in-job/) for more information.

## How can I store data in my Serverless resource?

Serverless resources are by default [stateless](/serverless/functions/concepts/#stateless), local storage is ephemeral.

> In different use cases, such as saving analysis results and exporting data, it can be important to save data. Serverless resources can be connected to resources from the Scaleway ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For some use cases, such as saving analysis results, exporting data etc., it can be important to save data. Serverless resources can be connected to other resources from the Scaleway ecosystem for this purpose:
```

## Can I securely use sensitive information with Serverless Jobs?

Yes, you can use sensitive data such as API secret keys, passwords, TLS/SSL certificates, or tokens. Serverless Jobs seamlessly integrates with [Secret Manager](/identity-and-access-management/secret-manager/), which allows you to securely reference sensitive information within your jobs. Refer to the [dedicated documentation](/serverless/jobs/how-to/reference-secret-in-job/) for more information.

> ## How can I store data in my Serverless ressource?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How can I store data in my Serverless resource?
```

> Serverless ressources are by default [stateless](/serverless/functions/concepts/#stateless), local storage is ephemeral.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless resources are by default [stateless](/serverless/functions/concepts/#stateless), local storage is ephemeral.
```

> In different use cases like saving results of analysis, exporting data etc... it can be important to save data. Serverless ressources can be connected to ressources from the Scaleway ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In different use cases like saving results of analysis, exporting data etc... it can be important to save data. Serverless resources can be connected to resources from the Scaleway ecosystem.
```

### Databases

* **Serverless Databases**: Go full serverless and take the complexity out of PostgreSQL database operations.
* **Managed MySQL / PostgreSQL**: Ensure scalability of your infrastructure and storage with our new generation of Managed Databases designed to scale on-demand according to your needs.
* **Managed Database for Redis®**: Fully managed Redis®* in seconds.
* **Managed MongoDB®**: Get the best of MongoDB® and Scaleway in one database.

### Storage

> * **Object storage**: Multi-AZ resilient object storage service ensuring high availability for your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Object Storage**: Multi-AZ resilient object storage service ensuring high availability for your data.
```

* **Scaleway Glacier**: Our outstanding Cold Storage class to secure long-term object storage. Ideal for deep archived data.

<Message type="tip">
Explore all Scaleway products on the console and select the right product for your use case.

> Some products are not listed but for example, on specific use cases Secret Manager can help you to store informations that requires versionning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some products are not listed but for example, on specific use cases Secret Manager can help you to store informations that requires versioning.
```
